Hi my name is Mike Ryan, and I'm the Chief Investment Strategist for
UBS Wealth Manage Americas.
Thank you for joining me.
Now in the time we have together today I'd like to share with you my thoughts on
a subject that both interests and confuses a great many people.
The stock market.
Now understanding the stock market and how it works is important, even for
those individuals who are not active investors.
Because a well-functioning stock market is an absolutely essential
element in the forming and funding of new businesses,
the efficient allocation of capital, the creation of employment opportunities, and
ultimately, the long term accumulation of wealth for a society.
But before we go into any detail about the stock market, let's first clarify
a few points and define a few concepts to make our discussion more meaningful and
more informative.
First of all, there is no single stock market, but in fact many different markets
around the world with disparate rules, regulations, features, and functions.
What they each have in common however, is that they allow businesses to gain
access to private capital financing through public markets.
Secondly, instead of thinking in terms of a stock market,
it's really more appropriate to understand that what we are really talking about here
is a market of stocks.
While this is admittedly something of a cliché,
it also has the advantage of being appropriate one.
Because while there are many factors that drive the pricing of financial assets
collectively, there are other features that will ultimately lead to distinctly
different performance within each market.
Lastly, there was a great deal of jargon in market speak used by financial market
participants that can make things even more confusing when trying to
understand the stock market, so I'm going to try to avoid much of the jargon here.
But when do you encounter an unfamiliar term, phrase, or
an acronym, don't be shy about asking what it means.
So let's get started with what we need to know in
order to better understand markets.
First of all, there are a great many variables that ultimately influence
directional moves and the pricing performance of markets overall.
So many in fact that it's almost impossible to list here.
However there are four broad categories that many of these variables and
catalysts fall into that I would like to briefly highlight for you.
The first is macroeconomic editions.
It's often said that the stock market appears divorced on realities of the real
economy but nothing could be further from the truth.
In fact employment growth, business investment spending and
inflation all have a critical and primary impact upon market performance.
The second is policy choices and decisions.
In the aftermath of the global financial crisis.
It became increasingly obvious that policy makers can at times play an essential and
even dominant role in market outcomes.
These policy choices include monetary policy, what actions central banks
are taking and fiscal policy, what are elected officials doing with your money?
The third is valuation.
Knowing how fast an economy is growing and
which policy choices are being made are important market determinates.
But understanding how much of that growth and which of those policy moves has
already been discounted to market pricing is perhaps even more important.
It is therefore essential to also have developed the framework and
tools that can be helpful for valuing equity markets.
Lastly, there are also technical factors that must be considered as well.
Too often fundamentals, policy choices, and
even valuation can be trumped in the very short term by technical forces.
These might include flows in and out of mutual funds, positioning within
speculative accounts, and even changes in rules, and regulations.
Just to wrap things up, let me go back for
a moment to a concept I touched on briefly at the beginning of our discussion.
That is, a market of stocks.
Because while all the factors I've already discussed will influence overall markets,
there are other variables that will lead to differences in performance for
individual companies.
Once again, these are too many to list, but
fortunately, we can also place these into three broad categories.
Think of them as who, what, and how.
First, who are the managers and stewards of the business?
And do they have the ability, willingness, and
skill to make the decisions required for the company to thrive?
Second, what is their competitive advantage or
differentiated product that sets them apart from their competitors?
Third, how will they shepherd the resources of the firm to ensure
that their company continues to innovate, grow, and
prosper in a competitive business environment.
Well that about wraps up our discussion.
Well we've only begun to scratch the surface of what is required to value
equity markets.
We hope you find these first steps to be helpful building blocks as you build
a foundation for thoughtful market analysis.
Once again, thank you for joining me.