Hello, my name is Simon Smiles.
I'm UBS's Chief Investment Officer for Ultra High Net Worth Business.
Today I wanted to talk briefly about what clients
ideally want from investment managers, and what indeed we can actually provide them.
Clients ideally want us to make money without short term draw downs or
getting every investment call right.
Unfortunately, achieving even two of these three expectations is near on impossible.
But, what we can do is to set up an investment process which gives us a best
possible shot of making money with and acceptable amount of risk and
getting more of our investment calls right than we get wrong.
The first step is to set up a robust internal process.
At UBS we spent a lot of time developing cutting edge quantitative models.
That set the basis for our analysis of whether to be risk on or
risk off in our tactical asset allocation.
We then have analysts covering every asset class in every major geography and
every major time zone who give us bottom-up granular input.
And then we have strategists and
asset allocators who marry those top-down views and the account inputs
with a bottom-up feedback to come up with our internal investment views.
The second step is to build a rigorous external vetting process.
At UBS, every month, we hold our investor forum.
And at the investor forum, we get the world's leading investors to come in and
debate markets.
We don't impose our views, though.
Instead, we provide a forum for great investment minds,
some of the best in the world, to debate the key issues facing markets.
What we hear doesn't necessarily change our investment views every month.
But at least once a quarter, we will do something we previously hadn't planned to
do, or we won't do something we had originally planned to.
And every month, it provides us with nuances and
new views with the respect to both the upside and
downside risks to our assumptions and each of our investment positions.
In addition, we try and
utilize our clients to challenge our macro economic assumptions.
At UBS, our industry leaders network has over 65 of
the world's largest private entrepreneurs.
And it's growing.
Around half of these entrepreneurs run global businesses with the rest spread
between Asian focused business, European focused businesses, US focused businesses,
and businesses focused on the emerging markets.
Around half of the participants in the consumer space
with the rest spread between materials, industrials and tech.
And every month we talk to them about how their business is progressing and
how they see the world.
Gives you fascinating on the ground input from China, peripheral Europe and
the US, and you see in real time how business activity's evolving.
It allows us to challenge our underlying assumptions.
And the third key to building an investment process,
which gives us the best possible shot of making money with an acceptable amount of
risk, is to focus on the advantages private investors enjoy
over their professional counterparts.
One of those advantages is the ability to deal with illiquidity.
Private investors typically don't have the same liquidity needs as professional
investors, who must guard against fund outflows that are not in their control.
A second advantage is that private investors can also typically take a much
longer term view than professional investors, who typically face daily mark
to markets and career risk if they under perform for even a short period of time.
And a third advantage that individual investors enjoy over professional
investors is that professional investors are usually tracking benchmarks on US or
European equity and
disease, while private investors are inherently benchmark agnostic.
As a result of these advantages, two areas in particular we focus on to try and
find value enhancing investments for private investors are longer term themes,
which place structural trends beyond most professional investors time horizons.
And are often played by direct investment or private equity, so
private investors can in addition, enjoy additional illiquidity premiums.
The secondary we focus on is trying to take the opposite side of crowded
professional investor trades that cause dislocations.
One example is protection on US equities.
It's structurally overpiced as it's by professional investors as a default market
to buy, insurance in.
Private investors can take advantage of this and sell the overpriced insurance,
using the premium to buy multiple units of insurance on other less main stream equity
markets such as Korea's KOSPI2.
In sum, what clients ideally want is to make money without short term draw
downs while getting every investment call right.
Achieving at least two of these three expectations is near on impossible.
But by setting up a robust internal investment process with rigorous external
vetting that also focuses on the inherent advantages private investors have
over their professional counterparts.
Gives you the best possible shot of making money with an acceptable amount of risk
and getting more of your investment goals right than wrong.
Thank you very much. 
